Implement `cudf-polars` chunked parquet reading (#16944)
rapidsai/cudf: docs/cudf/source/cudf_polars/engine_options.md

# GPUEngine Configuration Options

The `polars.GPUEngine` object may be configured in several different ways.

## Parquet Reader Options

> Chunked reading is controlled by passing a dictionary of options to the `GPUEngine` object. Details may be found following the links to the underlying `libcudf` reader.

Reviewer: *nit*: This doesn't tell me why I should use "chunked" reading.

How about:

> Reading large parquet files, especially if they are compressed, can run out of device memory. At the cost of a small drop in performance, the memory used for parquet reads can be reduced by selecting the "chunked" reader. When enabled, parquet files are read in chunks with a limit on the amount of memory that is used.

> To configure the parquet reader, we provide a dictionary of options to the `parquet_options` keyword in the `GPUEngine` object. Valid keys and values are:

...

> - `parquet_chunked`, indicicates is chunked parquet reading is to be used, default True.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `chunked`, indicates if chunked parquet reading is to be used, default False.
```

> - [chunk_read_limit](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum size per chunk, default unlimited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`chunk_read_limit`](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum size per chunk, default unlimited.
```

> - [pass_read_limit](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum memory used for decompression, default 16GiB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`pass_read_limit`](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum memory used for decompression, default 16GiB.
```

> For example, one would pass these parameters as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, to select the chunked reader with custom values for `pass_read_limit` and `chunk_read_limit`:
```

```python
engine = GPUEngine(

>     raise_on_fail=True,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

    parquet_options={

>         'parquet_chunked': True,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        'chunked': True,
```

        'chunk_read_limit': int(1e9),
        'pass_read_limit': int(4e9)
    }
)
result = query.collect(engine=engine)
```

> Note that passing `parquet_chunked: False` disables chunked reading entirely, and thus `chunk_read_limit` and `pass_read_limit` will have no effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that passing `chunked: False` disables chunked reading entirely, and thus `chunk_read_limit` and `pass_read_limit` will have no effect.
```

# GPUEngine Configuration Options

The `polars.GPUEngine` object may be configured in several different ways.

## Parquet Reader Options

> Reading large parquet files can use a large amount of memory, especially when the files are compressed. This may lead to out of memory errors for some workflows. To mitigate this, the "chunked" parquet reader may be selected. When enabled, parquet files are read in chunks with a limit on the amount of memory that is used, at the cost of a small drop in performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Reading large parquet files can use a large amount of memory, especially when the files are compressed. This may lead to out of memory errors for some workflows. To mitigate this, the "chunked" parquet reader may be selected. When enabled, parquet files are read in chunks, limiting the peak memory usage at the cost of a small drop in performance.
```

> Reading large parquet files incurs significant memory overhead, especially when the files are compressed. This may lead to out of memory errors for some workflows. To mitigate this, the "chunked" parquet reader may be selected. When enabled, parquet files are read in chunks with a limit on the amount of memory that is used, at the cost of a small drop in performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reading large parquet files can use a large amount of memory, especially when the files are compressed. This may lead to out of memory errors for some workflows. To mitigate this, the "chunked" parquet reader may be selected. When enabled, parquet files are read in chunks with a limit on the amount of memory that is used, at the cost of a small drop in performance.
```

To configure the parquet reader, we provide a dictionary of options to the `parquet_options` keyword of the `GPUEngine` object. Valid keys and values are:

> - `chunked`, indicates is chunked parquet reading is to be used, default True.

Reviewer 2: Let's write the defaults here in sentences rather than like docstrings.
```suggestion
- `chunked` indicates that chunked parquet reading is to be used. By default, chunked reading is turned on.
```

> - `chunked`, indicicates is chunked parquet reading is to be used, default True.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `chunked`, indicates is chunked parquet reading is to be used, default True.
```

Reviewer: In the code, the default is still False. Which is it to be?

Author: True.

> - [`chunk_read_limit`](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum size per chunk, default unlimited.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`chunk_read_limit`](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum size per chunk. By default, the maximum chunk size is unlimited.
```

> - [`pass_read_limit`](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum memory used for decompression, default 16GiB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [`pass_read_limit`](https://docs.rapids.ai/api/libcudf/legacy/classcudf_1_1io_1_1chunked__parquet__reader#aad118178b7536b7966e3325ae1143a1a) controls the maximum memory used for decompression. The default pass read limit is 16GiB.
```
